# Minutes/Topics September 2023

---

## Sept 7

Topics Covered:

- Discuss PR#343 <https://github.com/opiproject/opi-api/pull/343> - Still pending
- Discuss Announcements on API changes for checking and linter
- Networking Workshop Timing Planning
- Review Issues and Pending PRs in Github
- Documentation for API areas (Template needed)
- Requirements for moving APIs from Alpha to Beta

Notes:

- Alignment to Google AIP - objects need name field and string
  - Name enforcement, and name field can't be set by the customer unless it is not generated by the system.
  - Change from output only to IDENTIFIER
- API Networking Workgroup - In Person - September
  - Week of Sept 18th - Start at 8:00am PT to accomodate EU and other timezones as much as possible
  - Agenda for meeting to propose
- Documentation Template view for API definitions
  - Github.com/opiproject/opi-api/tree/main/storage as an initial example
  - API Template needs to have common look and feel with area for details to be added
  - Open an issue for Template Format of Documentation - Complete
- Requirements for moving Alpha APIs to Beta view - Need a PR for putting that together.
  - Open an issue for API transitions - Complete
- Completed PR review - cleaned up several older items.
- Issues review
  - Several need to be in discussion topics.  Specifically:
    - #53
    - #142
    - #211
    - #323
  - #332 needs to be taken up with the protoc-gen-grpc-gateway community
  - We need people to take up issues and have them assigned to them to address.
  - Use the github discussions to work through various issues in collaborative environment along with slack channel.

Recording at: <https://zoom.us/rec/share/bOuZV5zTTHgIqncjHUpEUhQ5rnMb8ow5jpnKxF75gBL32OYe53zNcNC382in2R5m.4qtLeqGXzwN0MkQV>

---

## Sept 14

Topics Planned:

- Discuss PR#343 <https://github.com/opiproject/opi-api/pull/343> - Still pending.
- Timing for Workshop meeting - week of 9/18 - target date 9/19 @8:00am PT
- Agenda review for Workshop meeting
- EVPN Bridge PR
  - <https://github.com/opiproject/opi-evpn-bridge/pull/148>
- API Open Issues
  - <https://github.com/opiproject/opi-api/issues/360>
  - <https://github.com/opiproject/opi-api/issues/178>
  - <https://github.com/opiproject/opi-api/issues/177>
  - <https://github.com/opiproject/opi-api/issues/161>
  - <https://github.com/opiproject/opi-api/issues/53>

Notes:

- Updated Agenda:
  - Agenda for Workshop Meeting (Planned 9/19/23 from 8:00 - 10:00am PT)
    - Key Use Cases (and Config Parameters)
      - Basic Networking
        - Port/Interface
        - VLAN
        - Routing
        - QoS
        - Access Control (ACL)
        - Tunnel Encap/Decap (IPSec)
      - Cloud Configuration
      - EVPN Configuration
      - Security (IPSec)
    - Architecture View (Granularity of parameters that are exposed?)
      - Northbound Interface (gRPC)
      - Southbound Interface (Hardware Facing)
      - Interface Layers
        - IPDK
        - DPDK
        - DOCA
        - etc.
    - Interface Configuration/Parameter Alignment
      - Netlink
      - CNI
      - OpenConfig
      - OVS
      - SAI
      - etc.
    - Counters and Statistics Gathering

Recording at: <https://zoom.us/rec/share/ijPSEE1dhEo11tM_uvqTCUpI3iK4MntnJSOhQ-Ent1W0AJtCyRr__7PQ74cBUwT-.MgiLmgWNCnBS5R1O>

---

## Sept 21

Topics Planned:

- Discuss Splitting the API Repository
  - Protobuf sources & documentation in the current API repository
  - Autogenerated files from protobuf sources in a new repository
- Transaction Support - do we support transactions on backand database or in gRPC?
- Open Issues:
  - <https://github.com/opiproject/opi-api/issues/360>
  - <https://github.com/opiproject/opi-api/issues/178>
  - <https://github.com/opiproject/opi-api/issues/177>
  - <https://github.com/opiproject/opi-api/issues/161>
  - <https://github.com/opiproject/opi-api/issues/53>

Notes:

- Group agreed that splitting the repository is a positive path.
  - This will allow for protobufs to be created and eliminate the complexity in the PRs when they are added by having the autogenerated files done automatically instead of having to be checked into the repo.
  - This also sets a common repo for the generated files that are used in the prototyping.
  - One option is to use the "buf" builder for the creation. <https://buf.build/>
- Discussed the transaction support aspect for the database.
  - This is not specifically an API related aspect; but, addressed here as part of the prototyping efforts
  - Objective is to have an agnostic approach to any transactions that need to occur.  Similar to what SONiC has done in there mechanism for collecting the parameters and actions and then executing them.

Recording at: <https://zoom.us/rec/share/0AmS7-zyh0iVIBtXhjL8zd76vHJL0YdyWKjyLAFyVf6e49qOE8BIoMP3FPc1A5TK.Z_xAU52fbm0csRQ2>

---

## Sept 28

Topics:

- InfraDB Strategy Discussion for Prototypes

Recording at: <https://zoom.us/rec/share/7649SWZSRLSua92_Q8BGAZjaAhyINri-Bsj9CMzh8qSZuLeUvOzavF2hO16rRseO.Mp8Nu_nPfvNoTzzy>

---
