# Minutes/Topics June 2023

---

## June 1

Topics Covered:

- EVPN PR review update.  All signed off except Boris Glimcher to allow the merge.
- Extending Hardware Offloads from the Linux Kernel

Recording at: <https://zoom.us/rec/share/xGRDbBEqqLKzzgeLXBeVx7CH04KAxPnVPS2gipHqPC0AvR9uZ_4HlsiERju6Yn2T.ZkcbsOKUEV7DIFvm>

---

## June 8

Topics

- Storage Multi-path support PR# 297

Recording at: <https://zoom.us/rec/share/NWnkpuqCdRR2FvY9ER9zXt9AhZJaGf_YzEp9KXlFRnW7xaGU0TTOXPllZCXh4rZB.dwl0J3RRD90_ljo7>

- The meeting for June 15th will be canceled as the SmartNIC summit is that week.

---

## June 22

Topics

- SmartNIC Summit Update.
- Storage Split into multi-pathing changes
- Review the EVPN Bridge concept and diagrams

Recording at: <https://zoom.us/rec/share/qwpJMVBM86bl5jEZ5j3II8JUid_lvi2srYjnK9lKFfXBpl63z4jMhBUb8hg-0-45.vyc_tY6R0Caj_3ky>

Actions:

- Update diagrams on the EVPN bridge for clarity.

---

## June 29

Topics Discussed

- Define a northstar view of the system with boundaries on API/Vendor and Open Source code.  Essentially what are the intersection points between the API and Vendor/Open Source code.

Recording at: <https://zoom.us/rec/share/R4YRfzfSx9qMMrr67NUhl1ngwVwDXCcskysJKtnPAZbP9QMay0xNzbuhWmifuuJk.l0IkN0VGsT96mxNf>

---

Future Topics:

- Layering Approach - Venkat
- Revisit API Diagrams and Discuss updates
- Primary and Secondary K8s Networking Offload
  - Deeper level discussion on Primary Offload
  - Deeper level discussion on Secondary capabilities
- Initial Configuration of the DPU before the operational configurations begin.
- Northstar view of boundaries API <--> Vendor code & API <--> Open Source
